---
layout: default
title: "Experience & Projects"
tags: projects
---

# <a name="top"></a>Professional Experience

## Nubank
**3 years 4 months**

### Senior Machine Learning Engineer
**August 2023 - Present (2 years 3 months)**

Working in a global team at Nubank, my journey involves the continuous evolution and enhancement of the platforms critical to our credit card operations. My team's main goal is to design, implement, and maintain frameworks and tools that boost operational efficiency while ensuring reliability.

**Key achievements:**
* Development of AI Agents to provide personalized financial insights to customers in the AI Private Banker product
* Evolved credit card operations platforms and architected efficiency-focused frameworks
* Led critical system decoupling from monolithic applications to smaller and modular applications improving platform agility, reliability and drastically improving costs
* Modernized model calibration framework enhancing analyst/data scientist collaboration
* Deployed catalog framework improving credit policy governance and lifecycle
* Led several heavy dataset optimizations
* Helped on migrating tons of artifacts to a new data mesh infrastructure
* Led initiatives to improve the interface for staging (pre-production) testing for models & credit card policies within Nubank

### Machine Learning Engineer
**July 2022 - August 2023 (1 year 2 months)**
São Paulo, São Paulo, Brasil

## Raízen
**11 months**

### Machine Learning Engineer
**April 2022 - June 2022 (3 months)**
São Paulo, Brasil

Working on the first horizontal ML platform team at Raízen, I have been at the forefront of enhancing our data pipelines and establishing a cohesive framework for model monitoring. My responsibilities include:

* Collaboratively framing strategies for horizontal improvement of data pipeline infrastructure, ensuring seamless data flows and accessibility across multiple teams within the organization.
* Led the initial work to standardize model monitoring practices, which has enabled consistent model performance tracking and has laid the groundwork for unified anomaly detection and health metrics.

### Data Science Specialist
**August 2021 - April 2022 (9 months)**
São Paulo, São Paulo, Brasil

As the Lead Data Scientist, I conducted two critical time series forecasting projects to enhance fuel product demand predictions. I focused on delivering organizational and performance improvements through:

* Streamlining and cleaning code, reducing complexity for better maintainability.
* Parallelizing and optimizing backtest and predicting workflows, increasing computational efficiency.
* Modularizing code structures to improve the scalability of forecasting models.

Key achievements include designing advanced model refinement strategies to boost forecast accuracy, implementing monitoring pipelines for continual model performance assessment, and pioneering a user-friendly forecasting simulator. This simulator empowers business stakeholders to explore and understand model predictions, fostering a deeper engagement with our data-driven initiatives.

## Beegol
### Data Scientist | ML Engineer
**June 2019 - August 2021 (2 years 3 months)**
São Paulo e Região, Brasil

* Implementation of ML models and deploy in production
* Identify and develop improvements of ML models evaluating several complementary metrics
* Build a generic ETL pipeline that best suits different customers.
* Data investigation and exploratory data analysis
* Development of interactive dashboards using Tableau
* Build daily/weekly reports for customers notifying performance results

## Quaasar Machine Learning
### Data scientist
**April 2018 - June 2019 (1 year 3 months)**
São Paulo e Região, Brasil

Working with several topics involving: Time Series Analysis, Classification (Binary/Multiclass), Regression, Visual Analytics and common Data Analysis.

## Optimale Tecnologia
**1 year 10 months**

### Junior Data Scientist
**June 2017 - April 2018 (11 months)**
Campo Grande e Região, Brasil

Web Development, Data Analysis, Machine Learning, Statistical models, APIs

### Software Engineering Intern
**July 2016 - June 2017 (1 year)**

Software Development focused in two main areas:

* Data Science using statistical models (ARIMA), Linear Regression, k-NN, Outlier Detection, Clustering, Neural Networks, among others.
* Web Development using AngularJS, NodeJS, JS, Material Design, Java, Python, Spring Boot, Flask, REST, among others.

## TecSinapse
### Software Engineer Intern
**August 2014 - August 2015 (1 year 1 month)**
UFMS

Develop system interface using Java, use Apache crawler and make changes to adapt the domain, attend meetings to define the system architecture, make system use cases, make system diagrams, integrate the interface with the Backend, design databases, run experiments.

## PsG Tecnologia Aplicada
### Software Engineer Intern
**August 2013 - August 2014 (1 year 1 month)**
Campo Grande e Região, Brasil

One of the points that directly impact the production of sugarcane and the presence of "flaws" in the sugarcane lines. The flaws in this work are characterized by regions where the distance between two consecutive rods is greater than 50 cm. Detect flaws and a great challenge given the size of the plantations and the methodology currently employed. Currently, data collection for fault estimation is done by displacing people within the plantation and that of manual measurement. With technological advancement, it is possible to obtain high resolution area images using Unmanned Aerial Vehicles. With these images it is possible to estimate the failure rate in the plantations in a faster, safer and more economical way. The objective of this project was the development of algorithms in Artificial Intelligence and Computer Vision for the treatment of the images for the estimation of the failures from the aerial images.

---

# Education

## Universidade Estadual de Campinas
**Master's degree, Computer Science** · (2017 - 2020)

## Universidade Federal de Mato Grosso do Sul
**Bachelor's degree, Computer Science** · (2014 - 2017)

---

# Certifications & Awards

## Certifications
* XII Workshop de Visão Computacional (WVC 2016)
* IV Workshop de Engenharia de Software
* Machine Learning Engineering for Production (MLOps) Specialization
* Escola Regional de Informática
* Machine Learning Data Lifecycle in Production

## Honors & Awards
* 4º Place Brazilian Robotics Competition IEEE Very Small Size, (CBR 2012)., IEEE.
* Best scientific poster in the Graduation category (Machine Learning-Based System for Recognition of Named Entities in Portuguese)

## Publications
* Sistema baseado em Aprendizado de Máquina para Reconhecimento de Entidades Nomeadas em Português.
* What should we pay attention to when classifying violent videos?
